NATP Module 10 Dry-Run Plan: Vital Signs
Current Dry-Run Model

This dry run includes only NATP Module 10: Vital Signs.

This is a source-first test package for the future 24-hour CNA Recertification Theory Class. It is not the full class. It does not include NATP Modules 11-17, final assessment planning, certificate issuance, or optional clinical support completion.

Module 10 Scope

Learner-facing title: NATP Module 10: Vital Signs
Theory time for dry run: 3 hours / 180 minutes
Source-recommended clinical time: 6 hours, tracked as in-person or evaluator-supported only, not online credit
Instructional source: cccco-na-model-curriculum-module-10.pdf as source-file history only
Learner-facing source label: NATP Module 10: Vital Signs

Source Purpose

The module prepares learners to know how, when, and why vital signs are taken, how to report and chart vital-sign procedures, how to measure temperature, pulse, respirations, and blood pressure, and how to recognize and report normal and abnormal findings.

Module 10 Objectives

NATP Module 10 contains these 16 objectives: define terminology; describe vital signs and observations; discuss temperature; describe measures to raise/lower body temperature; describe pulse and pulse sites; describe pulse factors and qualities; define respiration; describe respiration observations; describe abnormal breathing patterns; describe TPR as a combined procedure; explain blood pressure; identify BP factors; identify BP equipment; discuss BP procedure; discuss pain observation/reporting; and record vital signs on charts, graphs, and Nursing Assistant notes.

Delivery Model

Use a MediaLessonPlayer as the core shell. Each objective is a chapter. Every objective gets:

one short media/slide segment;
one mobile-friendly exercise;
one quick knowledge or decision check;
one source trace note;
one completion event.

Hands-on procedures are shown as demonstration and checklist support only. The app must not say the learner has demonstrated hands-on competency online.

Time Structure: 180 Minutes
Objective	Topic	Est. Minutes
1	Key terminology	14
2	Meaning/purpose of vital signs and observations	9
3	Temperature as body-function indicator	18
4	Measures to raise/lower body temperature	7
5	Pulse and pulse sites	10
6	Pulse factors and qualities	11
7	Respiration and respiratory-rate factors	8
8	Observations when measuring respirations	9
9	Abnormal breathing patterns	9
10	TPR combined procedure	7
11	Blood pressure production	10
12	Factors increasing/decreasing BP	7
13	Blood pressure equipment	8
14	Blood pressure procedure	20
15	Pain observation/reporting	16
16	Charting vital signs	17
Total		180
Objective-by-Objective Exercise Plan
Objective	Source-Aligned Exercises
1. Define key terminology	Exercise 1A: Vital Signs Flashcard Deck. Learner swipes through terms, hears pronunciation, and sorts each term into Temperature, Pulse, Respiration, BP, or Pain. Exercise 1B: Crossword Quest. Mobile recreation of the Vital Signs Crossword from the source handout. Exercise 1C: Five-Term Report Sentence. Learner selects five source terms and writes a short CNA-style sentence using each correctly. Source recommends games, flashcards, crossword handouts, spelling/pronunciation/context work, and vocabulary pre/post testing.
2. Describe vital signs, purpose, and observations	Exercise 2A: Vital Signs Dashboard. Learner taps temperature, pulse, respirations, blood pressure, and pain to see what each can indicate. Exercise 2B: Resident Room Spot-Check. Learner taps visible observations: skin color, skin temperature, behavior, comfort/pain statement. Exercise 2C: Vital Signs Chart Builder. Learner fills a simplified Vital Signs Chart from source concepts. Source recommends lecture/discussion, demonstration/return demonstration, and Handout 10.2 Vital Signs Chart.
3. Discuss temperature as an indicator of body function	Exercise 3A: Heat Balance Simulator. Learner adjusts infection, exercise, dehydration, warm clothing, sweating, shivering, and sees body-temperature direction. Exercise 3B: Thermometer Museum. Swipeable equipment cards for glass, digital, electronic, disposable, tympanic, and temporal thermometers. Exercise 3C: Temperature Route Choice. Learner chooses oral, rectal, axillary, tympanic, or temporal for fictional situations and sees contraindication reminders.
4. Describe nursing measures to raise/lower temperature	Exercise 4A: Raise or Lower Sort. Learner sorts source actions into raise temperature, lower temperature, or report/ask nurse. Exercise 4B: Comfort Switchboard. Learner adjusts room temperature, coverings, fluids, and bath/sponging choices. Exercise 4C: Fever/Chill Micro-Scenario. Learner chooses safe CNA actions for a resident who feels chilled or febrile.
5. Describe circulatory system as related to pulse and identify pulse sites	Exercise 5A: Pulse Site Body Map. Learner taps carotid, apical, brachial, radial, femoral, popliteal, and dorsalis pedis. Exercise 5B: Heart-to-Artery Animation. Short animation showing contraction, arterial expansion, and pulse. Exercise 5C: Site Match Speed Round. Learner matches “thumb side of wrist,” “neck,” “inner elbow,” etc. to source pulse sites.
6. Describe factors increasing/decreasing pulse and pulse qualities	Exercise 6A: Pulse Detective. Learner predicts whether exercise, fever, hemorrhage, pain, shock, emotions, rest, depression, medications, or athletic conditioning raises/lowers pulse. Exercise 6B: Beat Trainer. Learner hears/feels simulated beat patterns and identifies rate, rhythm, thready, bounding, regular, or irregular. Exercise 6C: One-Full-Minute Practice. Learner uses an on-screen timer to practice counting simulated radial/apical pulse for one full minute.
7. Define respiration and factors affecting respiratory rate	Exercise 7A: Breath Cycle Loop. Learner watches one inhalation/exhalation cycle and identifies oxygen/carbon dioxide exchange. Exercise 7B: Respiration Factor Race. Learner sorts factors that increase or decrease respiratory rate. Exercise 7C: Normal Breathing Pick. Learner chooses the clip that is quiet, effortless, and regular.
8. Describe observations when measuring respirations	Exercise 8A: Respiration Observation Lens. Learner taps rate, rhythm, depth, symmetry, effort, discomfort, position, sounds, color, and behavior in a fictional scene. Exercise 8B: Cyanosis Alert. Learner identifies concerning color changes using safe illustrated visuals. Exercise 8C: Report Now or Routine? Learner decides whether findings are normal, chart-only, or immediate-report items.
9. Describe abnormal breathing patterns	Exercise 9A: Breathing Pattern Theater. Short loops show labored, orthopnea, stertorous, abdominal, shallow, dyspnea, tachypnea, bradypnea, apnea, and Cheyne-Stokes. Exercise 9B: Pattern Match. Learner matches term, description, and visual loop. Exercise 9C: Urgency Ladder. Learner ranks respiratory scenarios by urgency and selects what to report to the licensed nurse.
10. Describe TPR as a combined procedure	Exercise 10A: TPR Flow Timeline. Learner arranges temperature → pulse → respirations. Exercise 10B: Do Not Break the Flow. Media player pauses after pulse and asks whether to record or continue to respirations. Exercise 10C: Memory Sticky Note. Learner remembers a pulse count while counting simulated respirations, then records TPR in order.
11. Describe what happens in the circulatory system to produce blood pressure	Exercise 11A: Artery Pressure Pump. Animation shows systolic and diastolic pressure. Exercise 11B: First Sound / Last Sound Demo. Learner listens to simulated BP sounds and identifies systolic/diastolic. Exercise 11C: BP Fraction Builder. Learner builds readings like 120/80 and identifies systolic over diastolic.
12. Identify factors that increase/decrease BP	Exercise 12A: BP Elevator Game. Learner moves factors up/down: emotion, exercise, standing/sitting, pain, digestion, rest, lying down, depression, shock, hemorrhage. Exercise 12B: Before You Take BP Checklist. Learner flags conditions that may affect the reading. Exercise 12C: False Reading Mini-Lab. Learner predicts false high/low results from cuff size, placement, and arm position.
13. Identify parts of blood pressure equipment	Exercise 13A: Equipment Labeling Lab. Learner labels cuff, bulb, manometer, stethoscope, bell/diaphragm, earpieces, and automated cuff. Exercise 13B: Manual vs Automated Sort. Learner sorts equipment/functions by manual or electronic BP device. Exercise 13C: Clean Setup Challenge. Learner identifies what must be cleaned before use.
14. Discuss procedure for taking blood pressure	Exercise 14A: One-Step / Two-Step Procedure Player. Branchable player walks through source Manual Skills 10.14a and 10.14b. Exercise 14B: Cuff Placement Coach. Learner positions cuff arrow over brachial artery, bare arm, snug fit, arm at heart level. Exercise 14C: Do Not Use This Arm. Learner avoids arms/sides with IV, burns, paralysis, amputation, cast, trauma, dialysis site, or mastectomy/breast surgery. The source includes BP procedure cautions, equipment display, demonstration/return demonstration, and role play.
15. Discuss observation/reporting of pain	Exercise 15A: Pain Scale Role Play. Learner practices asking about pain using the pain scale and follow-up questions. Exercise 15B: Nonverbal Pain Clue Hunt. Learner taps signs such as moaning, guarding, sweating, restlessness, difficulty moving, or jaw tightening. Exercise 15C: Bias Check Scenario. Learner chooses respectful responses that take complaints seriously and avoid judging. Source includes pain scale handout, role play, barriers, signs of pain, and reporting complaints to the licensed nurse.
16. Record vital signs on chart, graph, and Nursing Assistant notes	Exercise 16A: TPR/BP Charting Sandbox. Learner records TPR in correct order, notes R/AX route labels, apical pulse, BP fraction, and alternate BP site. Exercise 16B: Find the Charting Error. Learner finds missing route, wrong order, bad BP format, missing abnormal report, or site omission. Exercise 16C: Report + Record Simulation. Learner first reports an abnormal finding to the licensed nurse, then documents in a fictional chart with no PHI.
Source Assets to Include in the Dry Run
Source Asset	Use in Dry Run
Terminology list	Objective 1 flashcards, pronunciation, spelling, crossword, vocabulary pre/post check
Handout 10.1a Vital Signs Crossword	Crossword Quest
Handout 10.1b Vital Signs Crossword Key	Instructor/internal validation only
Handout 10.2 Vital Signs Chart	Vital Signs Chart Builder
Manual Skills 10.3a-10.3e	Temperature procedure player and checklist support
Manual Skills 10.6a/10.6b	Pulse procedure demo and one-full-minute practice
Manual Skills 10.8	Respiration procedure demo and observation check
Manual Skills 10.14a/10.14b	BP one-step/two-step procedure player
Handout 10.15 Pain Scale	Pain Scale Role Play
Sample Test Module 10	Module assessment item source; answer key internal only
Integrated Challenge

Place one integrated best-answer clinical judgment challenge after Objective 8 or 9.

Challenge title: “The Vital Signs Pattern Does Not Match Baseline”

Scenario: A fictional resident has a change in breathing pattern, altered skin color, and vital signs outside the expected range. The learner must decide the safest CNA action.

Design rule: Choices should all sound plausible, but only one should be the safest and most complete. Debrief must explain every option and the common trap behind it. This preserves the plan’s challenge/debrief rules while keeping answer-key logic protected.

Assessment Policy for Dry Run

Module 10 practice checks are learning activities. The scored Module 10 assessment is separate from instructional minutes.

Assessment sources may include:

terminology items;
route/contraindication decisions;
normal/abnormal range interpretation;
TPR sequencing;
BP equipment and procedure decisions;
pain scale/reporting scenarios;
charting-format questions.

Learner-facing remediation explains the concept but does not expose protected final answer keys. The current plan already requires module assessment time and final assessment time to be tracked separately from theory time.

Hands-On and Clinical Boundary

Online Module 10 may show procedures, demonstrate sequence, use checklists, and support learner preparation.

It must not say:

“competency validated online”;
“clinical hours earned online”;
“hands-on skill passed”;
“CDPH/TPRU approved” unless approval is actually granted.

The source-recommended clinical time is carried as a deferred in-person/evaluator-supported component, not an online certificate claim.

App/Data Dry-Run Structure

Use this as the temporary source-first data shape:

{
  "module_id": "natp_m10",
  "module_title": "NATP Module 10: Vital Signs",
  "source_module_number": 10,
  "source_module_title": "Vital Signs",
  "theory_minutes": 180,
  "source_recommended_clinical_minutes": 360,
  "online_clinical_credit_claimed": false,
  "objectives": [
    {
      "objective_number": 1,
      "objective_statement": "Define key terminology",
      "estimated_minutes": 14,
      "source_recommended_strategies": [
        "Lecture/discussion",
        "Games",
        "Flashcards",
        "Vital Signs Crossword"
      ],
      "exercises": [
        "Vital Signs Flashcard Deck",
        "Crossword Quest",
        "Five-Term Report Sentence"
      ],
      "completion_evidence": [
        "viewed_media_segment",
        "completed_activity",
        "practice_check_submitted"
      ],
      "source_reference": "NATP Module 10, Objective 1"
    }
  ]
}
Acceptance Criteria for This Dry Run
Only NATP Module 10: Vital Signs appears in the dry-run instructional plan.
All 16 Module 10 objectives are represented.
Each objective has at least one mobile-friendly exercise.
Source recommendations are honored where possible: games, flashcards, crossword, handouts, demonstration/return demonstration, role play, charts, procedure checklists, written checks.
Manual skills appear as procedure demonstrations and checklist supports, not online competency validation.
Clinical hours are not claimed online.
No PHI is requested, typed, uploaded, shown, or implied.
No certificate production or CDPH approval claim is introduced.
Assessment time remains separate from the 180 instructional minutes.
The dry run can be rendered in the current app using a flexible MediaLessonPlayer or equivalent LessonPlayer refactor.

This is the right shape for the first rebuild pass: one source module, every source objective, exercises that actually match the source, and no more artificial course grouping.